# Base Expo React Native Typescript with Bottom Tab

This is a simple example of a React Native application with Typescript as the language and incorporating the react native bottom tabs as generated by using Expo. The current templates in Expo doesn't include this include this particular setup so I had to make my own.

What I did was to generate two separate probjects. One was generated with the **"Bare workflow" minimal (Typescript)** template and the other used the **"Managed workflow" tabs** template.

```
 ? Choose a template:
   ----- Managed workflow -----
   blank                 a minimal app as clean as an empty canvas
   blank (TypeScript)    same as blank but with TypeScript configuration
   tabs                  several example screens and tabs using react-navigation
   ----- Bare workflow -----
   minimal               bare and minimal, just the essentials to get you started
 ❯ minimal (TypeScript)  same as minimal but with TypeScript configuration
```
I then merged the **tabs** project into the **minimal** project. Moving the directories:
- assets
- components
- constants
- navigation
- screens

Merged the *package.json* files and simply overwrote the *App.tsx* contents with the **tabs** version.

~~To get everything to work nicely with Typescript, I reformated the \*.js files by creating subdirectories with the same name as the file name, copy the file into that directoy, and renaming the file to *index.ts* or *index.tsx*. For example: *./screens/HomeScreen.js* became *./screens/HomeScreen/index.tsx*. This did cause the need to add an addition offset of directories since the *index.tsx* file is one level deeper.~~

~~This all works, removing the "file not found" errors/warnings that appear in the Visual Studio Code IDE, but this is very messy. I'm going to experiment to see if there is a better way but for now this is about a clean as I can get it.~~

~~I'd also like to remove the "../.." indirect addressing with absolue directories but so far no luck. All that has happen with try adding base paths to the configuration(s) is to have the whole thing fail.~~

## Updated as Apr 17, 2020
Ok well I got the absolute formatted paths working and updated the directory structure...

First I was able to get absolute paths to work by simply adding the element **"name": "app** to the **package.json**. This statisfies the compiler... Unfortunately it doesn't make VSC happy. It now shows the "not found" error I removed by moving the files to subdirectories and renaming them to *index.ts(x)*. Well if it going to be pissed anyway, I restructured and renamed files back.

I moved all the various code files to under a *src* directory, which I prefer then having them on the *root* where it is a bit messy. As I mentioned I also removed the file named directories with *index.ts(x)* and simply restored them to their almost original names (don't forget I changed the js to ts(x) file extentions).

I'll see if I can figure out how to remove the error/warning from VSC.
